src/adding-tokens-to-hashi-bridge.md, before:

# Adding a Token to the HASHI Bridge

Adding tokens to the HASHI bridge allows them to be transferred between the SORA and Ethereum Networks.

Adding a token to the SORA HASHI bridge involves several steps:

1. [Registering a token within the SORA blockchain](#registering-a-token-within-the-sora-blockchain)
2. [Registering a SORA asset on the bridge](#registering-a-sora-asset-on-the-bridge)
3. [Registering an ERC-20 token in Ethereum and its mapping with a SORA asset](#registering-an-erc-20-token-in-ethereum-and-its-mapping-with-a-sora-asset)
4. [Adding a token to a whitelist](#adding-a-token-to-a-whitelist)

## Registering a token within the SORA blockchain

Refer to [Registration](/register-an-asset.md) for the instructions on registering a token within the SORA blockchain.

## Registering a SORA asset on the bridge

1. Get the AssetId of the asset you want to add (e.g. `0x000268050a977248b641719592e7a0247ce4741839c83ec6aac6a865d3d0ba2c`).

2. Go to [polkadot{.js}](http://polkadot.js.org/) and call the `ethBridge.addAsset` extrinsic via a fast track motion (see the steps in [Fast track public voting](fast-track-public-voting.md)) with the asset id from the first step and network id `0` (for Ethereum).

   ![](.gitbook/assets/hashi-call-extrinsic.png)

3. Once the proposal goes through, acquire the bridge’s peers' signatures via the `ethBridge.getAccountRequests` RPC with your account as the first argument and status `ApprovalsReady`.

   ![](.gitbook/assets/hashi-acquire-signatures.png)

4. The RPC will return a bunch of hashes. These are off-chain request hashes, the last one should be `OutgoingAddAsset` request. To find out if the asset was added successfully, use the `getRequests` RPC.

5. After your hash is found, use `getApprovedRequests` RPC to get the approvals.

6. Call `addEthSidechainToken` in the bridge's smart contract.

### Using Remix

1. Copy the contract ABI from the Code section on Etherscan:

   ![](.gitbook/assets/hashi-copy-the-contract-abi.jpg)

2. Create a file with ABI on https://remix.ethereum.org:

   ![](.gitbook/assets/hashi-create-file-with-abi.jpg)

3. Choose Metamask as a provider:

<center><img src="/.gitbook/assets/hashi-choose-metamask.jpg" width="400"></center>

4. Copy the contract address in the "At Address" field and click on the At Address button

<center><img src="/.gitbook/assets/hashi-copy-address.jpg" width="400"></center>

5. Fill in the transaction data:

<center><img src="/.gitbook/assets/hashi-fill-in-data.jpg" width="400"></center>

6. Confirm the transaction:

<center><img src="/.gitbook/assets/hashi-confirm-transaction.jpg" width="400"></center>

### Using Etherscan

Access https://etherscan.io/address/0x1485e9852ac841b52ed44d573036429504f4f602#writeContract and fill in the fields with data from the previous step. Note, that v parameters in signatures should be increased by `27`. That is, if you see `v: 0` and `v: 1`, these parameters should be passed as `[27, 28]`.

![](.gitbook/assets/hashi-fill-in-data-using-etherscan.png)

## Registering an ERC-20 token in Ethereum and its mapping with a SORA asset

1. Get all the necessary information about the token:

   - Address (e.g. `0xdac17f958d2ee523a2206206994597c13d831ec7`)
   - Symbol (e.g. `USDT`)
   - Name (e.g. Tether `USD`)
   - Decimals (e.g. `6`)
   - Network id (e.g. `0` for Ethereum)

2. Create a proposal (see the steps in [Fast track public voting](fast-track-public-voting.md)) to call the `ethBridge.addSidechainToken` extrinsic with arguments from the first step.

   ![](.gitbook/assets/hashi-create-proposal.png)

3. After the proposal is approved, acquire the bridge’s peers' signatures via the `ethBridge.getAccountRequests` RPC of the `cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7hZUUWqKBpWxmnxL4nczYfYfrh` account.

   ![](.gitbook/assets/hashi-acquire-signatures.png)

4. The RPC will return a bunch of hashes. These are off-chain request hashes, one of them should be `OutgoingAddToken` request. To find out if the asset was added successfully, use the `getRequests` RPC.

5. After your hash is found, use the `getApprovedRequests` RPC to get the approvals.

6. Go to https://etherscan.io/address/0x313416870a4da6f12505a550b67bb73c8e21d5d3#writeContract and call `addEthNativeToken` with data from the previous step. Note, that v parameters in signatures should be increased by `27`. That is if you see `v: 0` and `v: 1`, these parameters should be passed as `[27, 28]`.

   ![](.gitbook/assets/hashi-add-contract.png)

## Adding a token to a whitelist

If you want to be able to bridge your token in Polkaswap, and in order to move your token to Ethereum, it needs to be whitelisted. You can whitelist your token by following the instructions on [GitHub](https://github.com/sora-xor/polkaswap-token-whitelist-config).

First, the pull request has to be approved, then the token will be whitelisted in future updates on Polkaswap.

Commit message:

Added meta tags to the rest of the pages

src/adding-tokens-to-hashi-bridge.md, after:

---
title: Adding Tokens to Hashi Bridge | Sora Docs
head:
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: Learn how to add tokens to the Hashi Bridge on the Sora Network. Discover the step-by-step process of listing new tokens on the bridge, including the requirements, procedures, and considerations for adding tokens. Explore the benefits of bridging assets and enabling interoperability between different blockchain networks through the Hashi Bridge.
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: adding tokens, Hashi Bridge, Sora Network, listing tokens, requirements, procedures, asset bridging, interoperability, blockchain networks
---

# Adding a Token to the HASHI Bridge

Adding tokens to the HASHI bridge allows them to be transferred between the SORA and Ethereum Networks.

Adding a token to the SORA HASHI bridge involves several steps:

1. [Registering a token within the SORA blockchain](#registering-a-token-within-the-sora-blockchain)
2. [Registering a SORA asset on the bridge](#registering-a-sora-asset-on-the-bridge)
3. [Registering an ERC-20 token in Ethereum and its mapping with a SORA asset](#registering-an-erc-20-token-in-ethereum-and-its-mapping-with-a-sora-asset)
4. [Adding a token to a whitelist](#adding-a-token-to-a-whitelist)

## Registering a token within the SORA blockchain

Refer to [Registration](/register-an-asset.md) for the instructions on registering a token within the SORA blockchain.

## Registering a SORA asset on the bridge

1. Get the AssetId of the asset you want to add (e.g. `0x000268050a977248b641719592e7a0247ce4741839c83ec6aac6a865d3d0ba2c`).

2. Go to [polkadot{.js}](http://polkadot.js.org/) and call the `ethBridge.addAsset` extrinsic via a fast track motion (see the steps in [Fast track public voting](fast-track-public-voting.md)) with the asset id from the first step and network id `0` (for Ethereum).

   ![](.gitbook/assets/hashi-call-extrinsic.png)

3. Once the proposal goes through, acquire the bridge’s peers' signatures via the `ethBridge.getAccountRequests` RPC with your account as the first argument and status `ApprovalsReady`.

   ![](.gitbook/assets/hashi-acquire-signatures.png)

4. The RPC will return a bunch of hashes. These are off-chain request hashes, the last one should be `OutgoingAddAsset` request. To find out if the asset was added successfully, use the `getRequests` RPC.

5. After your hash is found, use `getApprovedRequests` RPC to get the approvals.

6. Call `addEthSidechainToken` in the bridge's smart contract.

### Using Remix

1. Copy the contract ABI from the Code section on Etherscan:

   ![](.gitbook/assets/hashi-copy-the-contract-abi.jpg)

2. Create a file with ABI on https://remix.ethereum.org:

   ![](.gitbook/assets/hashi-create-file-with-abi.jpg)

3. Choose Metamask as a provider:

<center><img src="/.gitbook/assets/hashi-choose-metamask.jpg" width="400"></center>

4. Copy the contract address in the "At Address" field and click on the At Address button

<center><img src="/.gitbook/assets/hashi-copy-address.jpg" width="400"></center>

5. Fill in the transaction data:

<center><img src="/.gitbook/assets/hashi-fill-in-data.jpg" width="400"></center>

6. Confirm the transaction:

<center><img src="/.gitbook/assets/hashi-confirm-transaction.jpg" width="400"></center>

### Using Etherscan

Access https://etherscan.io/address/0x1485e9852ac841b52ed44d573036429504f4f602#writeContract and fill in the fields with data from the previous step. Note, that v parameters in signatures should be increased by `27`. That is, if you see `v: 0` and `v: 1`, these parameters should be passed as `[27, 28]`.

![](.gitbook/assets/hashi-fill-in-data-using-etherscan.png)

## Registering an ERC-20 token in Ethereum and its mapping with a SORA asset

1. Get all the necessary information about the token:

   - Address (e.g. `0xdac17f958d2ee523a2206206994597c13d831ec7`)
   - Symbol (e.g. `USDT`)
   - Name (e.g. Tether `USD`)
   - Decimals (e.g. `6`)
   - Network id (e.g. `0` for Ethereum)

2. Create a proposal (see the steps in [Fast track public voting](fast-track-public-voting.md)) to call the `ethBridge.addSidechainToken` extrinsic with arguments from the first step.

   ![](.gitbook/assets/hashi-create-proposal.png)

3. After the proposal is approved, acquire the bridge’s peers' signatures via the `ethBridge.getAccountRequests` RPC of the `cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7hZUUWqKBpWxmnxL4nczYfYfrh` account.

   ![](.gitbook/assets/hashi-acquire-signatures.png)

4. The RPC will return a bunch of hashes. These are off-chain request hashes, one of them should be `OutgoingAddToken` request. To find out if the asset was added successfully, use the `getRequests` RPC.

5. After your hash is found, use the `getApprovedRequests` RPC to get the approvals.

6. Go to https://etherscan.io/address/0x313416870a4da6f12505a550b67bb73c8e21d5d3#writeContract and call `addEthNativeToken` with data from the previous step. Note, that v parameters in signatures should be increased by `27`. That is if you see `v: 0` and `v: 1`, these parameters should be passed as `[27, 28]`.

   ![](.gitbook/assets/hashi-add-contract.png)

## Adding a token to a whitelist

If you want to be able to bridge your token in Polkaswap, and in order to move your token to Ethereum, it needs to be whitelisted. You can whitelist your token by following the instructions on [GitHub](https://github.com/sora-xor/polkaswap-token-whitelist-config).

First, the pull request has to be approved, then the token will be whitelisted in future updates on Polkaswap.
