src/check-balance.md, before:

---
title: Check Balance on the SORA Network | SORA Docs
head:
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: Learn how to check your balance on the SORA network and view your asset holdings. Discover the different methods and tools available to check your balance, including wallets, block explorers, and other SORA network interfaces. Stay informed about your asset balances and track your holdings within the SORA ecosystem.
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: check balance, SORA network, asset holdings, wallets, block explorers, SORA network interfaces, asset balances
---

# Check User Balances

## Via Polkadot.js UI

1. Go to [SORA polkadot.js](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Fws.sora2.soramitsu.co.jp#/rpc).

2. Click on **Developer** and then **RPC calls**

   ![](.gitbook/assets/check-balance-rpc-calls.jpg)

3. Select \__assets_ → _freeBalance(accountid,assetid)_.

   ![](.gitbook/assets/check-balance-select.png)

4. Fill in _AssetID_ and press _"Submit RPC call"_.

   ::: info

   For more Asset IDs check out the [Tokens subsection of the Polkaswap.io Explore](https://polkaswap.io/#/explore/tokens) page. You can find the core token Asset IDs in the [Check supply](check-supply.md) page.
   :::

   ![](.gitbook/assets/check-balance-fill-in-asset-id.jpg)

This is the expected output. In this case, the VAL amount has been checked (look at AssetID)

Unfortunately, Polkadot.js supports only one asset for the network, that's why it shows XOR. However, it is actually the asset that you asked for: PSWAP, VAL, ETH, DAI, and so on.

The letter before XOR means that the number is multiplied by the following amount:

| Letter | Multiplier |
| ------ | ---------- |
| k      | 1000       |
| m      | 1000000    |
| B      | 1000000000 |
| m      | 0.001      |

So, in the example above the shown amount is 80.434 mXOR = 0.080434 VAL

For more details on how to read this output, [take a look at this](check-supply.md#how-to-read-the-results).

Commit message:

Addressing the issues raised by Billy, SORA staking on Polkaswap tutorial also added.
Signed-off-by: William Richter <richter@soramitsu.co.jp>

src/check-balance.md, after:

---
title: Check Balance on the SORA Network | SORA Docs
head:
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: Learn how to check your balance on the SORA network and view your asset holdings. Discover the different methods and tools available to check your balance, including wallets, block explorers, and other SORA network interfaces. Stay informed about your asset balances and track your holdings within the SORA ecosystem.
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: check balance, SORA network, asset holdings, wallets, block explorers, SORA network interfaces, asset balances
---

# Check User Balances
This guide will show you how to check your balances using the
Polkadot.js interface using an RPC call or through the Ceres Tools
portfolio feature. 

::: info
For new users or users without Polkadot.js experience, it is
recommended to use Ceres Tools. 
:::

## Via Polkadot.js UI

1. Go to [SORA polkadot.js](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Fws.sora2.soramitsu.co.jp#/rpc).

2. Click on **Developer** and then **RPC calls**

   ![](.gitbook/assets/check-balance-rpc-calls.jpg)

3. Select \__assets_ → _freeBalance(accountid,assetid)_.

   ![](.gitbook/assets/check-balance-select.png)

4. Fill in _AssetID_ and press _"Submit RPC call"_.

   ::: info

   For more Asset IDs check out the [Tokens subsection of the Polkaswap.io Explore](https://polkaswap.io/#/explore/tokens) page. You can find the core token Asset IDs in the [Check supply](check-supply.md) page.
   :::

   ![](.gitbook/assets/check-balance-fill-in-asset-id.jpg)

This is the expected output. In this case, the VAL amount has been checked (look at AssetID)

Unfortunately, Polkadot.js supports only one asset for the network, that's why it shows XOR. However, it is actually the asset that you asked for: PSWAP, VAL, ETH, DAI, and so on.

The letter before XOR means that the number is multiplied by the following amount:

| Letter | Multiplier |
| ------ | ---------- |
| k      | 1000       |
| m      | 1000000    |
| B      | 1000000000 |
| m      | 0.001      |

So, in the example above the shown amount is 80.434 mXOR = 0.080434 VAL

For more details on how to read this output, [take a look at
this](check-supply.md#how-to-read-the-results).

## Via Ceres Tools

1. Go to Ceres Tools and navigate to the [Portfolio
   section](https://tools.cerestoken.io/portfolio)
   
  ![](/.gitbook/assets/tools-portfolio-connect-wallet.png)
  
2. Connect your wallet and you will find information of all your
     assets including their balances. 
	 
  ![](/.gitbook/assets/tools-portfolio.png)
  
  ## Learn More

- [Polkaswap Statistics](./statistics-polkaswap.md)
- [Ceres Tools](./ceres/tools.md)
