src/ecosystem.md, before:

---
title: "SORA Ecosystem - Decentralized Economic System | SORA Docs"
head:
  - - meta
    - name: viewport
      content: "width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0"
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: "Explore the SORA ecosystem - a decentralized economic system comprising the SORA network, Polkaswap, XOR token, and more. Learn about the interconnected components and innovative features driving SORA's vision for a fair and sustainable financial system."
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: "SORA ecosystem, SORA network, Polkaswap, XOR token, decentralized economic system, fair financial system, sustainable financial system"
  - - meta
    - name: author
      content: "SORA network"
  - - meta
    - property: og:title
      content: "SORA Ecosystem - Decentralized Economic System | SORA Docs"
  - - meta
    - property: og:description
      content: "Explore the SORA ecosystem - a decentralized economic system comprising the SORA network, Polkaswap, XOR token, and more. Learn about the interconnected components and innovative features driving SORA's vision for a fair and sustainable financial system."
  - - meta
    - property: og:type
      content: "website"
  - - meta
    - property: og:site_name
      content: "SORA Docs"
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:card
      content: "summary"
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:title
      content: "SORA Ecosystem - Decentralized Economic System | SORA Docs"
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:description
      content: "Explore the SORA ecosystem - a decentralized economic system comprising the SORA network, Polkaswap, XOR token, and more. Learn about the interconnected components and innovative features driving SORA's vision for a fair and sustainable financial system."
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:site
      content: "@sora_xor"
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:creator
      content: "@sora_xor"
---

# The SORA Ecosystem

![](.gitbook/assets/SORA-Ecosystem.png)

<center><i>SORA Ecosystem Overview, including parachains and current SORA Builders</i> </center>

SORA is a community-first network within the Substrate ecosystem. As
of writing, the SORA Kusama parachain is currently active, with the
SORA Polkadot parachain coming soon.
Community members and developers are the key stakeholders of SORA,
therefore feature development is mapped out on the [SORA Integrated Plan](integrated-plan.md), which is open to receive milestone contributions through the RFP
program.

## What You Will Find in This Section

The SORA Integrated Plan as well as its current milestones are hosted
here. You will also find information on
[Polkaswap](https://polkaswap.io/), such as the [Memorandum and
T&C's](polkaswap/terms) and the [Polkaswap privacy policy](polkaswap/privacy).

Information on the [SORA Synthetics](xst.md) and [SORA Card](sora-card.md) are also available
here. An important part of the SORA ecosystem are the wallets you can
use, in this section you can find information on the [SORA](mobile.md)
and [Fearless](fearless.md)
Wallets.

Finally, in the Request Features section you will find the guide to
contribute to SORA network development, as well as how to submit an
[RFP](rfp.md) with a proposal for new features.

## Learn More

- [SORA Integrated Plan](/integrated-plan)
- [Request Features on SORA](/rfp)

Commit message:

Add parachains leasing period to Ecosystem.md

src/ecosystem.md, after:

---
title: "SORA Ecosystem - Decentralized Economic System | SORA Docs"
head:
  - - meta
    - name: viewport
      content: "width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0"
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: "Explore the SORA ecosystem - a decentralized economic system comprising the SORA network, Polkaswap, XOR token, and more. Learn about the interconnected components and innovative features driving SORA's vision for a fair and sustainable financial system."
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: "SORA ecosystem, SORA network, Polkaswap, XOR token, decentralized economic system, fair financial system, sustainable financial system"
  - - meta
    - name: author
      content: "SORA network"
  - - meta
    - property: og:title
      content: "SORA Ecosystem - Decentralized Economic System | SORA Docs"
  - - meta
    - property: og:description
      content: "Explore the SORA ecosystem - a decentralized economic system comprising the SORA network, Polkaswap, XOR token, and more. Learn about the interconnected components and innovative features driving SORA's vision for a fair and sustainable financial system."
  - - meta
    - property: og:type
      content: "website"
  - - meta
    - property: og:site_name
      content: "SORA Docs"
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:card
      content: "summary"
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:title
      content: "SORA Ecosystem - Decentralized Economic System | SORA Docs"
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:description
      content: "Explore the SORA ecosystem - a decentralized economic system comprising the SORA network, Polkaswap, XOR token, and more. Learn about the interconnected components and innovative features driving SORA's vision for a fair and sustainable financial system."
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:site
      content: "@sora_xor"
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:creator
      content: "@sora_xor"
---

# The SORA Ecosystem

![](.gitbook/assets/SORA-Ecosystem.png)

<center><i>SORA Ecosystem Overview, including parachains and current SORA Builders</i> </center>

SORA is a community-first network within the Substrate ecosystem. As
of writing, the SORA Kusama parachain is currently active, with the
SORA Polkadot parachain coming soon.
Community members and developers are the key stakeholders of SORA,
therefore feature development is mapped out on the [SORA Integrated Plan](integrated-plan.md), which is open to receive milestone contributions through the RFP
program.

Additionally to the SORA mainnet, the SORA ecosystem also comprises two parachains that connect to the Kusama and Polkadot ecosystems.
* The **SORA Kusama parachain** has secured a lease to the Kusama relay chain until the **17th January 2025**
* The **SORA Polkadot parachain** has secured a lease to the Polkadot relay chain until the **20th November 2025**

## What You Will Find in This Section

The SORA Integrated Plan as well as its current milestones are hosted
here. You will also find information on
[Polkaswap](https://polkaswap.io/), such as the [Memorandum and
T&C's](polkaswap/terms) and the [Polkaswap privacy policy](polkaswap/privacy).

Information on the [SORA Synthetics](xst.md) and [SORA Card](sora-card.md) are also available
here. An important part of the SORA ecosystem are the wallets you can
use, in this section you can find information on the [SORA](mobile.md)
and [Fearless](fearless.md)
Wallets.

Finally, in the Request Features section you will find the guide to
contribute to SORA network development, as well as how to submit an
[RFP](rfp.md) with a proposal for new features.

## Learn More

- [SORA Integrated Plan](/integrated-plan)
- [Request Features on SORA](/rfp)
