src/id.md, before:

---
title: "SORA ID | SORA Docs"
head:
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: "Learn about SORA ID, a decentralized digital identity solution on the SORA network. Discover how SORA ID enables users to manage their digital identities securely, interact with decentralized applications, and engage in trustless transactions within the SORA ecosystem."
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: "SORA ID, digital identity, decentralized identity, SORA network, decentralized applications, trustless transactions"
---

# Identity

SORA allows you to store profile information in order to identify and discover people across the network. It's convenient for users to use the identity and registrar features. A tutorial is provided below on how to set up an identity for yourself.

## Via PolkadotJS UI

### Register an Identity

Requirements:

- SORA account
- ~0.005 XOR to pay the fee

Follow these steps to set up an identity:

1. Go to the [Polkadot JS Apps pointing at the Sora Mainnet](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Fws.mof.sora.org#/accountss) account's tab:

2. Click on the hamburger menu icon on the account you wish to register an identity for. Then select "Set on-chain identity":

  <center><img src="/.gitbook/assets/id-select-menu.png" width="400"></center>

3. Register your Identity and click on "Set Identity" when finished.

   <center><img src="/.gitbook/assets/id-register-id.png" width="400"></center>

   ::: info

   Please note that you will have to pay a small XOR transaction fee for signing.

   :::

Once the transaction is completed your account will show an identity!

## Request Identity Judgment

Once you have finished following all the steps outlined in the [Register an identity](/id.md#register-an-identity) section, you can request an additional verification to obtain a prominent green checkmark next to your account name. This verification serves as an indication that you are a recognized and verified user, allowing others to easily identify and trust your account.

1. Request judgement from a registrar on polkadot.js.

Using the account you wish to verify, go under the Developer tab and follow these steps:

- Click Extrinsics.
- Select `Identity` and `requestJudgement`.
- Under `regIndex`, place `1` (`reg_index` = `0` is no longer active). Registrar `1` has a fee of 1 `XOR`.
- Submit the transaction.

  <center><img src="/.gitbook/assets/requestJudgement.png" width="600"></center>

2. Donate to Community Marketing Funds address.

Donate a minimum of 1 `XOR` per account requesting judgement to the Community Marketing Funds address (`cnSN9X2HNU3uYjRbGvTwpgUdtVDuNk1g29XkcQNoNBQxgt1ii`).
The funds from this community wallet are used for SORA marketing.

3. Contact the registrar directly. You can find their contact info in their profile.

| Social media/messaging platform | Identifier                 |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| Telegram                        | https://t.me/SpicyHotWings |
| Twitter                         | @mishokanaria              |
| Riot                            | @spicyhotwings:matrix.org  |

4. Verify your identity.

You will need to prove that the information on-chain is legitimate. Each registrar will have their own set of procedures to verify your identity and values, and only once you've satisfied their requirements will the process continue.

::: info

You can freely change any values during the judgement process until you are verified. However, changing the value of even a single field after you've been verified will un-verify your account and you will need to start the judgement process anew.

:::

Commit message:

Add Tutorial for Identity Judgement (#195)
* Add Tutorial for Identity Judgement

Signed-off-by: William Richter <richter@soramitsu.co.jp>

* Prettified Code!

* Update src/requesting-identity-judgement.md

Co-authored-by: Ekaterina Mekhnetsova <mekkatya@gmail.com>

* Prettified Code!

* Update src/requesting-identity-judgement.md

Co-authored-by: Ekaterina Mekhnetsova <mekkatya@gmail.com>

* Update src/requesting-identity-judgement.md

Co-authored-by: Ekaterina Mekhnetsova <mekkatya@gmail.com>

* Update src/requesting-identity-judgement.md

Co-authored-by: Ekaterina Mekhnetsova <mekkatya@gmail.com>

* Update src/requesting-identity-judgement.md

Co-authored-by: Ekaterina Mekhnetsova <mekkatya@gmail.com>

* Prettified Code!

* updates to ID page based on previous commits

Signed-off-by: William Richter <richter@soramitsu.co.jp>

* requested format fixes

Signed-off-by: William Richter <richter@soramitsu.co.jp>

* Prettified Code!

* image fix updating SORA fees

Signed-off-by: William Richter <richter@soramitsu.co.jp>

---------

Signed-off-by: William Richter <richter@soramitsu.co.jp>
Co-authored-by: WRRicht3r <WRRicht3r@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Ekaterina Mekhnetsova <mekkatya@gmail.com>

src/id.md, after:

---
title: "How to Request Identity Judgment For SORA | Getting Verified | SORA Docs"
head:
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: "Learn how to request identity judgment for your SORA account and get verified. Follow these steps to establish your on-chain identity and gain trust in the SORA community."
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: SORA, identity judgment, request judgment, polkadot.js, on-chain identity, verification, community marketing funds, Community Marketing Funds
---

# Identities on Substrate-Based Networks

## TL;DR

- You can set an on-chain identity to make it easier for others to recognize your address.
- As a Validator, it adds extra confidence to Nominators if they know your on-chain identity.
- This tutorial will help you set up an on-chain identity and request a judgement to your identity (as a trusted or verified entity on the SORA network)

## Via PolkadotJS UI

### Register an Identity

Requirements:

- A SORA account (Follow the [Account Creation
  tutorial](create-an-address.md) if you don't have one)
- ~0.005 XOR to pay the fee

Follow these steps to set up an identity:

#### 1. Go to the [Polkadot JS Apps pointing at the Sora Mainnet](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Fws.mof.sora.org#/accountss) account's tab:

#### 2. Click on the hamburger menu icon on the account you wish to register an identity for. Then select "Set on-chain identity":

  <center><img src="/.gitbook/assets/id-select-menu.png" width="400"></center>

#### 3. Register your Identity and click on "Set Identity" when finished.

   <center><img src="/.gitbook/assets/id-register-id.png" width="400"></center>

::: info

Please note that you will have to pay a small XOR transaction fee for signing.

:::

Once the transaction is completed your account will show an identity!

## Requesting Identity Judgment

Once you have finished following all the steps outlined in the [Register an identity](/id.md#register-an-identity) section, you can request an additional verification to obtain a prominent green checkmark next to your account name. This verification serves as an indication that you are a recognized and verified user, allowing others to easily identify and trust your account.

### 1. Request judgement from a registrar on polkadot.js.

Using the account you wish to verify, go under the Developer tab and follow these steps:

- Click Extrinsics.
- Select `Identity` and `requestJudgement`.
- Under `regIndex`, place `1` (`reg_index` = `0` is no longer active). Registrar `1` has a fee of 1 `XOR`.
- Submit the transaction.

  <center><img src="/.gitbook/assets/requestJudgement.png" width="600"></center>

### 2. Donate to Community Marketing Funds address.

Donate a minimum of 1 `XOR` per account requesting judgement to the Community Marketing Funds address (`cnSN9X2HNU3uYjRbGvTwpgUdtVDuNk1g29XkcQNoNBQxgt1ii`).
The funds from this community wallet are used for SORA marketing.

### 3. Contact the registrar directly. You can find their contact info in their profile.

| Social media/messaging platform | Identifier                 |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| Telegram                        | https://t.me/SpicyHotWings |
| Twitter                         | @mishokanaria              |
| Riot                            | @spicyhotwings:matrix.org  |

### 4. Verify your identity.

You will need to prove that the information on-chain is legitimate. Each registrar will have their own set of procedures to verify your identity and values, and only once you've satisfied their requirements will the process continue.

::: info

You can freely change any values during the judgement process until you are verified. However, changing the value of even a single field after you've been verified will un-verify your account and you will need to start the judgement process anew.

:::

## Learn More

- [Create an Account on SORA](/create-an-address.md)
- [Running a SORA Node](/running-a-node.md)
