src/karma.md, before:

---
title: Chameleon KARMA | SORA Docs
head:
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: The KARMA token provides farming rewards to liquidity providers in the XOR-ETH pool on Polkaswap. It is specifically designed to incentivize liquidity providers and support the stability of the Chameleon pools on Polkaswap.
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: token burn, Chameleon, XOR, ETH, Demeter, KXOR
---

# Chameleon (KARMA)

KARMA is a key SORA ecosystem token, specifically designed to incentivize liquidity providers and support the stability of the Chameleon pools on Polkaswap. Here's a detailed look at how KARMA works.

## Purpose and Incentives

The KARMA token is used to provide farming rewards to liquidity providers in the XOR-ETH pool on Polkaswap.

By participating in liquidity provision for this pool, users are rewarded with KARMA, encouraging more liquidity in the Chameleon pools.

## Minting and Burning Mechanism

For each Kensetsu XOR (KXOR) minted from collateralized deposits, an additional 1% of KXOR is minted specifically to buy back and burn KARMA tokens.

This buy-back-and-burn mechanism helps regulate the KARMA supply, supporting its value.

## Redistribution and Farming Rewards

80% of the KARMA tokens that are bought back and burned will be reminted and distributed to the Demeter farm.

These reminted KARMA tokens are then used as farming rewards for liquidity providers in the Chameleon pools, initially focusing on the XOR-ETH pool on Polkaswap.

## Deflationary Aspect

KARMA also has a deflationary mechanism. For every 10 million XOR burned, 1 KARMA token is minted.

After this initial minting, the KARMA token becomes deflationary, with 1% of minted KXOR used to buy back and burn KARMA tokens.

## In summary

By incorporating these mechanisms, the KARMA token plays a vital role in promoting liquidity and stability within the SORA ecosystem. Liquidity providers are incentivized with KARMA rewards, ensuring the health and growth of the Chameleon pools on Polkaswap.

## Learn More

- [Kensetsu Platform](/kensetsu-vaults.md)
- [Kensetsu XOR](/kxor.md)
- [Demeter Farming](/ceres/demeter-farming.md)

Commit message:

Implement comments
Merge In summary in the first paragraph.
In KXOR add link to PUSSY token

src/karma.md, after:

---
title: Chameleon KARMA | SORA Docs
head:
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: The KARMA token provides farming rewards to liquidity providers in the XOR-ETH pool on Polkaswap. It is specifically designed to incentivize liquidity providers and support the stability of the Chameleon pools on Polkaswap.
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: token burn, Chameleon, XOR, ETH, Demeter, KXOR
---

# Chameleon (KARMA)

KARMA is a crucial SORA ecosystem token created to incentivize liquidity providers and maintain the stability of the Chameleon pools on Polkaswap. By offering KARMA rewards to liquidity providers, the token ensures the health and growth of these pools, thus playing a vital role in promoting liquidity and stability within the SORA ecosystem.

## Purpose and Incentives

The KARMA token is used to provide farming rewards to liquidity providers in the XOR-ETH pool on Polkaswap.

By participating in liquidity provision for this pool, users are rewarded with KARMA, encouraging more liquidity in the Chameleon pools.

## Minting and Burning Mechanism

For each Kensetsu XOR (KXOR) minted from collateralized deposits, an additional 1% of KXOR is minted specifically to buy back and burn KARMA tokens.

This buy-back-and-burn mechanism helps regulate the KARMA supply, supporting its value.

## Redistribution and Farming Rewards

80% of the KARMA tokens that are bought back and burned will be reminted and distributed to the Demeter farm.

These reminted KARMA tokens are then used as farming rewards for liquidity providers in the Chameleon pools, initially focusing on the XOR-ETH pool on Polkaswap.

## Deflationary Aspect

KARMA also has a deflationary mechanism. For every 10 million XOR burned, 1 KARMA token is minted.

After this initial minting, the KARMA token becomes deflationary, with 1% of minted KXOR used to buy back and burn KARMA tokens.

## Learn More

- [Kensetsu Platform](/kensetsu-vaults.md)
- [Kensetsu XOR](/kxor.md)
- [Demeter Farming](/ceres/demeter-farming.md)
