src/pswap.md, before:

# PSWAP

**PSWAP** is used to reward liquidity providers on [Polkaswap](https://polkaswap.io/).

PSWAP has **decreasing supply**, with tokens burned with every token swap on Polkaswap.

The 0.3% fee for every swap on the Polkaswap DEX is used to buy PSWAP tokens on Polkaswap, which are then burned. At first, 90% of burned PSWAP tokens are reminted to allocate to the liquidity providers, but with time this percentage will decrease to 35% after 5 years.

## PSWAP Token Supply

- 10 billion max supply, decreasing with tokens burned
- PSWAP is a free-floating token whose price is decided by the market
- Current PSWAP circulating supply: ~36%, can be checked [here](https://mof.sora.org/qty/pswap)

## PSWAP Distribution

- ~6% rewards at launch (sora farm game)
- 25% [token bonding curve rewards](https://medium.com/polkaswap/pswap-rewards-part-2-the-sora-token-bonding-curve-70fab4c3f1b8) (vested)
- 35% [liquidity rewards](https://medium.com/polkaswap/pswap-rewards-1-polkaswap-liquidity-reward-farming-3e045d71509) (vested)
- ~4% [market making rewards](https://medium.com/polkaswap/pswap-rewards-part-3-polkaswap-market-making-rebates-1856f62ccfaa) (vested)
- 30% initial release dev

## PSWAP Token

Polkaswap will have 0.3% trading fees per transaction, which is the same as other contemporary exchanges like Uniswap. Unlike transaction fee models on other exchanges, on Polkaswap, trading fees are used to buy back and burn PSWAP tokens and then new PSWAP tokens are minted to reward LPs. Newly minted PSWAP tokens to liquidity providers start at 90% of the amount of burned PSWAP tokens in a 24 hour time period, and will gradually decrease down to a constant at 35% of daily burned tokens after 5 years. The PSWAP token model is thus deflationary in nature, unlike almost all other contemporary reward structures, because the rewards are limited by the amount burned in transaction fees each day.

Additionally, special rewards to strategic purchasers of XOR during the special XOR purchase period, rewards to liquidity providers during the initial liquidity tsunami period and market makers rewards are also distributed as a fraction of the daily burn (shown as the shaded **Strategy Bonus Vesting** region in the figure below). This gives guarantees that a sudden supply of tokens will not immediately flood the market and gives clear guidance about the supply of tokens in circulation.

<figure><img src=".gitbook/assets/strategic-bonus-vesting-updated(1)(2).png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

**Example:** Let's assume that buyback and burn from transaction fees for a day resulted in 10,000 PSWAP being burned. If the daily reward is 80%, then 8,000 new PSWAP tokens are given out proportionally across all liquidity providers and 1,000 PSWAP tokens are given to the SORA Parliament and 1,000 PSWAP are distributed between the participants of the bonus strategic programs

Since more PSWAP tokens are always burned than minted, PSWAP tokens are deflationary by nature. 600,000,000+ PSWAP tokens were created in the genesis event. PSWAP future token value is not dependent on the effort of the Polkaswap or Soramitsu team. In the future new PSWAP tokens may be minted by governance decisions of the SORA Parliament.

Commit message:

Added meta tags to the rest of the pages

src/pswap.md, after:

---
title: PSWAP Token | Sora Docs
head:
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: Learn about PSWAP, the utility token of Polkaswap, the decentralized exchange on the Sora Network. Discover the features, use cases, and benefits of PSWAP within the Polkaswap ecosystem. Explore its role in governance, fee discounts, liquidity mining, and other activities, and understand how PSWAP enhances the functionality and incentivizes participation in Polkaswap.
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: PSWAP token, Polkaswap, Sora Network, governance, fee discounts, liquidity mining, Polkaswap ecosystem, token functionality, participation incentives
---

# PSWAP

**PSWAP** is used to reward liquidity providers on [Polkaswap](https://polkaswap.io/).

PSWAP has **decreasing supply**, with tokens burned with every token swap on Polkaswap.

The 0.3% fee for every swap on the Polkaswap DEX is used to buy PSWAP tokens on Polkaswap, which are then burned. At first, 90% of burned PSWAP tokens are reminted to allocate to the liquidity providers, but with time this percentage will decrease to 35% after 5 years.

## PSWAP Token Supply

- 10 billion max supply, decreasing with tokens burned
- PSWAP is a free-floating token whose price is decided by the market
- Current PSWAP circulating supply: ~36%, can be checked [here](https://mof.sora.org/qty/pswap)

## PSWAP Distribution

- ~6% rewards at launch (sora farm game)
- 25% [token bonding curve rewards](https://medium.com/polkaswap/pswap-rewards-part-2-the-sora-token-bonding-curve-70fab4c3f1b8) (vested)
- 35% [liquidity rewards](https://medium.com/polkaswap/pswap-rewards-1-polkaswap-liquidity-reward-farming-3e045d71509) (vested)
- ~4% [market making rewards](https://medium.com/polkaswap/pswap-rewards-part-3-polkaswap-market-making-rebates-1856f62ccfaa) (vested)
- 30% initial release dev

## PSWAP Token

Polkaswap will have 0.3% trading fees per transaction, which is the same as other contemporary exchanges like Uniswap. Unlike transaction fee models on other exchanges, on Polkaswap, trading fees are used to buy back and burn PSWAP tokens and then new PSWAP tokens are minted to reward LPs. Newly minted PSWAP tokens to liquidity providers start at 90% of the amount of burned PSWAP tokens in a 24 hour time period, and will gradually decrease down to a constant at 35% of daily burned tokens after 5 years. The PSWAP token model is thus deflationary in nature, unlike almost all other contemporary reward structures, because the rewards are limited by the amount burned in transaction fees each day.

Additionally, special rewards to strategic purchasers of XOR during the special XOR purchase period, rewards to liquidity providers during the initial liquidity tsunami period and market makers rewards are also distributed as a fraction of the daily burn (shown as the shaded **Strategy Bonus Vesting** region in the figure below). This gives guarantees that a sudden supply of tokens will not immediately flood the market and gives clear guidance about the supply of tokens in circulation.

<figure><img src=".gitbook/assets/strategic-bonus-vesting-updated(1)(2).png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

**Example:** Let's assume that buyback and burn from transaction fees for a day resulted in 10,000 PSWAP being burned. If the daily reward is 80%, then 8,000 new PSWAP tokens are given out proportionally across all liquidity providers and 1,000 PSWAP tokens are given to the SORA Parliament and 1,000 PSWAP are distributed between the participants of the bonus strategic programs

Since more PSWAP tokens are always burned than minted, PSWAP tokens are deflationary by nature. 600,000,000+ PSWAP tokens were created in the genesis event. PSWAP future token value is not dependent on the effort of the Polkaswap or Soramitsu team. In the future new PSWAP tokens may be minted by governance decisions of the SORA Parliament.
