src/pussy.md, before:

---
title: PUSSY | SORA Docs
head:
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: Learn about the PUSSY token, a dedicated cryptocurrency designed to fund and reward builders within our community
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: reward, mint, Kensetsu, XOR, KXOR
---

# PUSSY :cat:

## Introduction

The PUSSY token is a dedicated cryptocurrency designed to fund and reward builders within the SORA community. Here’s an overview of its purpose and functionality

## Purpose of PUSSY Tokens

The PUSSY token supports builders working on productive outputs and projects within the SORA ecosystem.

It ensures that builders are fairly compensated for their contributions.

## How Builders Receive PUSSY Tokens

Builders submit invoices detailing their work to the community, usually monthly or based on specific milestones.

The community reviews and votes on these invoices. Once approved, the builders are rewarded with PUSSY tokens.

Currently, this community approval process is the only way to obtain PUSSY tokens.

## Utilizing PUSSY Tokens

Builders can leverage their PUSSY tokens by locking them in a Kensetsu vault.

By doing so, they can mint Kensetsu XOR (KXOR), an overcollateralized token pegged to the price of XOR.

This mechanism provides builders with a stable and valuable asset, enhancing the utility of their earned PUSSY tokens

## Kensetsu XOR (KXOR)

KXOR is minted by locking PUSSY tokens, ensuring that the tokens are put to productive use and helping maintain the stability and value of KXOR.

This system creates a robust financial ecosystem where builders are incentivized to contribute to the community’s growth and development.

## In summary

The PUSSY token is a vital part of our ecosystem, ensuring that builders are rewarded for their hard work and can convert their earnings into a stable, valuable asset.

## Learn More

- [Kensetsu Platform](/kensetsu-vaults.md)
- [Kensetsu KXOR](/kxor.md)

Commit message:

Implement comments
Merge In summary in the first paragraph.
In KXOR add link to PUSSY token

src/pussy.md, after:

---
title: PUSSY | SORA Docs
head:
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: Learn about the PUSSY token, a dedicated cryptocurrency designed to fund and reward builders within our community
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: reward, mint, Kensetsu, XOR, KXOR
---

# PUSSY :cat:

## Introduction

The PUSSY token is a dedicated cryptocurrency in the SORA community, aimed at funding and rewarding builders. It plays a crucial role in the ecosystem by ensuring builders are compensated for their efforts and can convert their earnings into a stable and valuable asset.

## Purpose of PUSSY Tokens

The PUSSY token supports builders working on productive outputs and projects within the SORA ecosystem.

It ensures that builders are fairly compensated for their contributions.

## How Builders Receive PUSSY Tokens

Builders submit invoices detailing their work to the community, usually monthly or based on specific milestones.

The community reviews and votes on these invoices. Once approved, the builders are rewarded with PUSSY tokens.

Currently, this community approval process is the only way to obtain PUSSY tokens.

## Utilizing PUSSY Tokens

Builders can leverage their PUSSY tokens by locking them in a Kensetsu vault.

By doing so, they can mint Kensetsu XOR (KXOR), an overcollateralized token pegged to the price of XOR.

This mechanism provides builders with a stable and valuable asset, enhancing the utility of their earned PUSSY tokens

## Kensetsu XOR (KXOR)

KXOR is minted by locking PUSSY tokens, ensuring that the tokens are put to productive use and helping maintain the stability and value of KXOR.

This system creates a robust financial ecosystem where builders are incentivized to contribute to the community’s growth and development.

## Learn More

- [Kensetsu Platform](/kensetsu-vaults.md)
- [Kensetsu KXOR](/kxor.md)
