src/register-an-asset.md, before:

# Registration

## Via Polkaswap

You can make your token a part of SORA Network by simply adding it.

1. First, you need to have a [Substrate-compatible account](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/en/learn-accounts) and add it to [Polkadot.js extension](https://polkadot.js.org/extension/) in your browser.

2. Add XOR to the account to pay the fee for token creation. For that, you can [move either XOR or another ERC-20 token](https://wiki.sora.org/guides/how-to-transfer-from-ethereum-mainnet-to-sora-v2-hashi-bridge), such as ETH or DAI, that you can then exchange to XOR on [Polkaswap](https://polkaswap.io/#/swap).

3. Go to [Polkaswap.io](https://polkaswap.io/) > "Account" > "Create Token":

   ![](/.gitbook/assets/register-asset-create-token.png)

4. Fill in the details of your token:

<center><img src="/.gitbook/assets/register-asset-create-token-fill-in.png" width="400"></center>

5. Confirm the network fee and create the token.

::: info
Please note that adding token to SORA network does not mean that it
will automatically be allowed to be transferred through the HASHI
bridge. To add your token to the HASHI bridge, please, check out
[Adding a Token to the HASHI Bridge](adding-tokens-to-hashi-bridge.md).
:::

Commit message:

Added meta tags to the rest of the pages

src/register-an-asset.md, after:

---
title: Register an Asset on the Sora Network | Sora Docs
head:
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: Learn how to register an asset on the Sora Network. Discover the process of listing and registering new digital assets within the Sora ecosystem. Explore the requirements, procedures, and considerations for asset registration, and understand the benefits of having your asset registered on the Sora Network.
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: register an asset, Sora Network, digital assets, asset registration, listing assets, requirements, procedures, Sora ecosystem
---

# Registration

## Via Polkaswap

You can make your token a part of SORA Network by simply adding it.

1. First, you need to have a [Substrate-compatible account](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/en/learn-accounts) and add it to [Polkadot.js extension](https://polkadot.js.org/extension/) in your browser.

2. Add XOR to the account to pay the fee for token creation. For that, you can [move either XOR or another ERC-20 token](https://wiki.sora.org/guides/how-to-transfer-from-ethereum-mainnet-to-sora-v2-hashi-bridge), such as ETH or DAI, that you can then exchange to XOR on [Polkaswap](https://polkaswap.io/#/swap).

3. Go to [Polkaswap.io](https://polkaswap.io/) > "Account" > "Create Token":

   ![](/.gitbook/assets/register-asset-create-token.png)

4. Fill in the details of your token:

<center><img src="/.gitbook/assets/register-asset-create-token-fill-in.png" width="400"></center>

5. Confirm the network fee and create the token.

::: info
Please note that adding token to SORA network does not mean that it
will automatically be allowed to be transferred through the HASHI
bridge. To add your token to the HASHI bridge, please, check out
[Adding a Token to the HASHI Bridge](adding-tokens-to-hashi-bridge.md).
:::
