src/sora-governance.md, before:

---
title: "SORA Governance - Decentralized Governance for SORA Network | SORA Docs"
head:
  - - meta
    - name: viewport
      content: "width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0"
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: "Explore SORA Governance - a decentralized governance system empowering participants to shape the future of the SORA network. Learn about voting, proposals, and decision-making processes."
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: "SORA Governance, decentralized governance, SORA network, voting, proposals, decision-making"
  - - meta
    - name: author
      content: "SORA network"
  - - meta
    - property: og:title
      content: "SORA Governance - Decentralized Governance for SORA network | SORA Docs"
  - - meta
    - property: og:description
      content: "Explore SORA Governance - a decentralized governance system empowering participants to shape the future of the SORA network. Learn about voting, proposals, and decision-making processes."
  - - meta
    - property: og:url
      content: "/sora-governance"
  - - meta
    - property: og:type
      content: "website"
  - - meta
    - property: og:site_name
      content: "SORA Docs"
  - - meta
    - property: og:locale
      content: "en_US"
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:card
      content: "summary"
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:title
      content: "SORA Governance - Decentralized Governance for SORA network | SORA Docs"
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:description
      content: "Explore SORA Governance - a decentralized governance system empowering participants to shape the future of the SORA network. Learn about voting, proposals, and decision-making processes."
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:site
      content: "@sora_xor"
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:creator
      content: "@sora_xor"
---

# SORA Governance

SORA governance is still in development. The current version uses the standard [Polkadot governance implementation](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/maintain-guides-democracy).

The SORA Parliament is the governance system for the SORA network, its main task is to allocate newly minted XOR to **productive projects**. By combining decentralized governance and capital allocation, the SORA Parliament can create a digital government that can work to make our world, and other worlds better, without intruding on individual liberties.

The SORA Parliament utilizes **Supranational Global Governance**. This method has clear separation between propositioning, decision making, and rule making. There is no president or prime minister in this system, rather the rules of the system itself are the leader and all participants collaborate together as equal peers, making and reviewing proposals. It will have multiple bodies with a clear separation of powers and where the members (Citizens) are chosen randomly. It is built around these three main concepts, the same that grounded democracy in Athens:

- **Isonomia**: the principle that everyone who is a citizen has political equality
- **Isegoria**: the right of all citizens to speak and contribute
- **Sortition**: randomly choosing groups of citizens to make decisions

Check out [this Medium
article](https://medium.com/sora-xor/the-sora-parliament-af8184dae384)
to find more about the Parliament and the governance bodies.

## Learn More

- [XOR](/xor.md)
- [Request Features on SORA](/rfp.md)

Commit message:

Added vote in SORA gov tutorial
Signed-off-by: William Richter <richter@soramitsu.co.jp>

src/sora-governance.md, after:

---
title: "SORA Governance - Decentralized Governance for SORA Network | SORA Docs"
head:
  - - meta
    - name: viewport
      content: "width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0"
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: "Explore SORA Governance - a decentralized governance system empowering participants to shape the future of the SORA network. Learn about voting, proposals, and decision-making processes."
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: "SORA Governance, decentralized governance, SORA network, voting, proposals, decision-making"
  - - meta
    - name: author
      content: "SORA network"
  - - meta
    - property: og:title
      content: "SORA Governance - Decentralized Governance for SORA network | SORA Docs"
  - - meta
    - property: og:description
      content: "Explore SORA Governance - a decentralized governance system empowering participants to shape the future of the SORA network. Learn about voting, proposals, and decision-making processes."
  - - meta
    - property: og:url
      content: "/sora-governance"
  - - meta
    - property: og:type
      content: "website"
  - - meta
    - property: og:site_name
      content: "SORA Docs"
  - - meta
    - property: og:locale
      content: "en_US"
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:card
      content: "summary"
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:title
      content: "SORA Governance - Decentralized Governance for SORA network | SORA Docs"
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:description
      content: "Explore SORA Governance - a decentralized governance system empowering participants to shape the future of the SORA network. Learn about voting, proposals, and decision-making processes."
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:site
      content: "@sora_xor"
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:creator
      content: "@sora_xor"
---

# SORA Governance

SORA governance is still in development. The current version uses
[Polkadot v1
Governance](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn/learn-governance).

::: info
To vote in SORA governance proposals, follow the [SORA Governance
Tutorial](participate-sora-governance.md).
:::

The SORA Parliament is the governance system for the SORA network, its main task is to allocate newly minted XOR to **productive projects**. By combining decentralized governance and capital allocation, the SORA Parliament can create a digital government that can work to make our world, and other worlds better, without intruding on individual liberties.

The SORA Parliament utilizes **Supranational Global Governance**. This method has clear separation between propositioning, decision making, and rule making. There is no president or prime minister in this system, rather the rules of the system itself are the leader and all participants collaborate together as equal peers, making and reviewing proposals. It will have multiple bodies with a clear separation of powers and where the members (Citizens) are chosen randomly. It is built around these three main concepts, the same that grounded democracy in Athens:

- **Isonomia**: the principle that everyone who is a citizen has political equality
- **Isegoria**: the right of all citizens to speak and contribute
- **Sortition**: randomly choosing groups of citizens to make decisions

Check out [this Medium
article](https://medium.com/sora-xor/the-sora-parliament-af8184dae384)
to find more about the Parliament and the governance bodies.

## Learn More

- [XOR](/xor.md)
- [Request Features on SORA](/rfp.md)
