src/sora-builders.md, before:

# SORA Builders Programme

### Decentralized Development at its Best

SORA is a truly decentralized movement, run by the community and for the community. Everyone is encouraged to actively participate in the development and constant improvement of the network. An example of this is the [RFP development process](/rfp.md), a program that allows users to submit requests for new features, and subsequently, proposals themselves to add new functions and to the network. Some successful merged proposals include the [XSTUSD stablecoin](https://github.com/sora-xor/rfps/blob/master/closed_rfps/XSTUSD.md) and the [Referral Program](https://github.com/sora-xor/rfps/blob/master/closed_rfps/ReferralProgramProposal.md).

The **SORA Builders Programme** is now launching to take the power of decentralization even further, and aid the community to make all their great ideas and suggestions to improve the network a reality.

## The Two Modalities of the SORA Builders Programme

The SORA Builders Programme is an extension of the [SORA RFP program](/rfp.md). The SORA Builders Programme branches out into two modalities, **New Project (Incubation)** and **Existing Project (Port)**. As the names imply, this programme will support the implementation and development of new projects, as well as porting existing apps onto the SORA network.

Both new projects and ports can receive compensation in the form of XOR, as well as development support from the SORA community. Because effectively, time and development efforts are not free, and in order to uphold the community standards, not everyone who applies will be accepted by the programme.

It is also important to mention that depending on the value added by the project, it may also qualify for [Social Insurance](https://medium.com/sora-xor/social-insurance-for-systematically-important-infrastructure-18a63ef711ca), however, there will be required due diligence and the project will have to prove systematic importance to the community.

It is easy to ask _wot_ and _wen_ when it comes to development, but _putting your RFP where your complaints are_ is not that simple to do. The community has no limitation to what is proposed, however, _[spam](https://youtu.be/duFierM1yDg)_, _CEX requests_, and other off-topic requests will not be considered.

**To join the SORA Builders Programme, please [fill this form](https://forms.gle/1cdvKTHLXnBXbMTr9), then join the [SORA Builders Telegram group](https://t.me/sorabuilders)**.

### Time to #Buidl

**The fate of the SORA network lies in the hands of its users!** SORA governance does not limit the use of the network to the desires of one entity, but rather, it empowers users and community members to improve the network as much as they want through the implementation of programs like **RFP submissions** and the **SORA Builders Programme**. Progress from both these initiatives will be reported in the fortnightly **Ecosystem Updates**, and all the submissions, as well as RFP and merged implementations, are publicly accessible in the [SORA RFP Github Repository](https://github.com/sora-xor/rfps) which ensures that full transparency and decentralized practices are always upheld.

_For more information, read the articles SORA Decentralized Development Process, How to RFP, and [Social Insurance for Systematically Important Infrastructure](https://medium.com/sora-xor/social-insurance-for-systematically-important-infrastructure-18a63ef711ca). To stay in the loop with the latest implementations of the SORA network and Polkaswap, make sure to follow the Ecosystem updates, and finally, to get a taste of what is to come, watch the [SORA Development Public Request for Proposal (RFP) Process Github Repo!](https://github.com/sora-xor/rfps)_

Commit message:

building landing fixes, sidebar changes (#85)
* building landing fixes, sidebar changes

Signed-off-by: William Richter <richter@soramitsu.co.jp>

* Prettified Code!

* Update src/build.md

Co-authored-by: Ekaterina Mekhnetsova <mekkatya@gmail.com>

* Update src/build.md

Co-authored-by: Ekaterina Mekhnetsova <mekkatya@gmail.com>

* Update src/build.md

Co-authored-by: Ekaterina Mekhnetsova <mekkatya@gmail.com>

* Update src/build.md

Co-authored-by: Ekaterina Mekhnetsova <mekkatya@gmail.com>

* weird file removed

Signed-off-by: William Richter <richter@soramitsu.co.jp>

* actual builders file added

Signed-off-by: William Richter <richter@soramitsu.co.jp>

---------

Signed-off-by: William Richter <richter@soramitsu.co.jp>
Co-authored-by: WRRicht3r <WRRicht3r@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Ekaterina Mekhnetsova <mekkatya@gmail.com>

src/sora-builders.md, after:

# SORA Builders Programme

### Decentralized Development at its Best

SORA is a truly decentralized movement, run by the community and for the community. Everyone is encouraged to actively participate in the development and constant improvement of the network. An example of this is the [RFP development process](/rfp.md), a program that allows users to submit requests for new features, and subsequently, proposals themselves to add new functions and to the network. Some successful merged proposals include the [XSTUSD stablecoin](https://github.com/sora-xor/rfps/blob/master/closed_rfps/XSTUSD.md) and the [Referral Program](https://github.com/sora-xor/rfps/blob/master/closed_rfps/ReferralProgramProposal.md).

The **SORA Builders Programme** is now launching to take the power of decentralization even further, and aid the community to make all their great ideas and suggestions to improve the network a reality.

## The Two Modalities of the SORA Builders Programme

The SORA Builders Programme is an extension of the [SORA RFP program](/rfp.md). The SORA Builders Programme branches out into two modalities, **New Project (Incubation)** and **Existing Project (Port)**. As the names imply, this programme will support the implementation and development of new projects, as well as porting existing apps onto the SORA network.

Both new projects and ports can receive compensation in the form of XOR, as well as development support from the SORA community. Because effectively, time and development efforts are not free, and in order to uphold the community standards, not everyone who applies will be accepted by the programme.

It is also important to mention that depending on the value added by the project, it may also qualify for [Social Insurance](https://medium.com/sora-xor/social-insurance-for-systematically-important-infrastructure-18a63ef711ca), however, there will be required due diligence and the project will have to prove systematic importance to the community.

It is easy to ask _wot_ and _wen_ when it comes to development, but _putting your RFP where your complaints are_ is not that simple to do. The community has no limitation to what is proposed, however, _[spam](https://youtu.be/duFierM1yDg)_, _CEX requests_, and other off-topic requests will not be considered.

**To join the SORA Builders Programme, please [fill this form](https://forms.gle/1cdvKTHLXnBXbMTr9), then join the [SORA Builders Telegram group](https://t.me/sorabuilders)**.

1- **Sign up**: After you have submitted your proposal, it will be reviewed
internally and you will be invited to talk to the developers, if it
is a match, the process will continue.

2- **Milestones**: Funding support provided by the SORA Builders
Programme is subject to the completion of milestones presented
within the proposal.

3- **Developer Support**: Depending on the milestones, your team can
request support from the developers to help porting or building
their project within the SORA network.
4- **Co-Marketing**: Part of the support provided from the SORA
Builder's Programme includes amplification of the project in the
SORA Ecosystem Updates and on SORA social media channels.

5- **Graduation**: Once your project is live on SORA, you will be part
of the elite SORA Builders Graduates. This doesn't mean that the
support provided will be over. You can still reach out to the tech
team for any support required.

Additionally, if your project qualifies and you chose to sign up for Social Insurance for [Systemically Important Infrastructure
](social-insurance.md), the governance of your app will be delegated to the SORA Parliament.

### Time to #Buidl

**The fate of the SORA network lies in the hands of its users!** SORA governance does not limit the use of the network to the desires of one entity, but rather, it empowers users and community members to improve the network as much as they want through the implementation of programs like **RFP submissions** and the **SORA Builders Programme**. Progress from both these initiatives will be reported in the fortnightly **Ecosystem Updates**, and all the submissions, as well as RFP and merged implementations, are publicly accessible in the [SORA RFP Github Repository](https://github.com/sora-xor/rfps) which ensures that full transparency and decentralized practices are always upheld.

_For more information, read the articles SORA Decentralized Development Process, How to RFP, and [Social Insurance for Systematically Important Infrastructure](https://medium.com/sora-xor/social-insurance-for-systematically-important-infrastructure-18a63ef711ca). To stay in the loop with the latest implementations of the SORA network and Polkaswap, make sure to follow the Ecosystem updates, and finally, to get a taste of what is to come, watch the [SORA Development Public Request for Proposal (RFP) Process Github Repo!](https://github.com/sora-xor/rfps)_
