src/transfer.md, before:

# Transfer

Transfers are used to send tokens from one account to another. You can make transfers using Polkadot.js apps, Polkaswap, and the SORA mobile application.

The transfer logic is implemented in the `assets` pallet. SORA supports multiple assets and every asset can be transferred.

Transferring is a transaction so the network fee must be paid. The fee is calculated in XOR so even if you transfer VAL, PSWAP, or any other token you should have some XOR to cover the fee. The transfer fee in SORA is **0.07 XOR**.

## Practice

::: tip
We recommend using the SORA testnet for practice exercises. Here are the Testnet links:

1. [Polkaswap test application](https://test.polkaswap.io/)
2. [Polkadot js SORA testnet application](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Fws.stage.sora2.soramitsu.co.jp#/explorer)
3. [Android testnet application](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=jp.co.soramitsu.sora.communitytesting&hl=en&gl=US)
4. [iOS testnet application](https://testflight.apple.com/join/670hF438)
   :::

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/RdJ6yFFl06k" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Getting Test Tokens

You can practice with transfers using test tokens in the SORA testnet.

1. Open the [faucet](https://testfaucet.polkaswap.io/)

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-open-faucet.png" width="400"></center>

2. Enter your SORA address, select the token, and the number of tokens you need.

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-request-testnet-tokens.png" width="400"></center>

3. Click **Send testnet VAL (XOR, PSWAP).**

::: info
Keep in mind that every transaction in SORA requires a fee in XOR. Transferring is a transaction so don't forget to request a few XORs from the faucet.
:::

### Send Tokens

#### Via Polkaswap

The Polkaswap web application has a wallet that you can use for sending tokens.

1. Open the **Account** section and click on send icon (an arrow near the asset)

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-click-send.png" width="400"></center>

2. Enter the recipient address and amount of tokens that you'd like to send

   <center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-enter-address.png" width="400"></center>

   If you enter an address that does not start with `cn`, then you'll see a notification about address conversion. <!-- (as mentioned in the Account prefix section of [Accounts in SORA](/accounts-in-sora.md#converting-the-address-format)). -->

   <center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-notification.png" width="400"></center>

3. Click Send and confirm the transaction.

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-confirm-transaction.png" width="400"></center>

4. After the transaction confirmation from the Polkadot.js extension appears, enter your password and confirm the transaction:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-confirmation-enter-password.png" width="400"></center>

::: tip

You can then find your transaction on the Activity tab:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-view-activity.png" width="400"></center>

:::

#### Via Mobile Application

The SORA mobile application provides a good UX for sending and receiving tokens.

1. Open the wallet screen and tap the send icon in the top right corner.

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-open-wallet.jpg" width="400"></center>

2. Select the token to sent:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-select-token.jpg" width="400"></center>

3. Enter the recipient's address:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-enter-recipient.jpg" width="400"></center>

4. Enter the amount of tokens to send:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-enter-amount-zero.jpg" width="400"> <img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-enter-amount-entered.jpg" width="400"></center>

5. Confirm the transaction:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-confirm.jpg" width="400"></center>

You'll be redirected to the Wallet screen:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-redirect-to-wallet.jpg" width="400"></center>

::: tip

Tap on the transaction in history to view the details:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-view-history.jpg" width="400"></center>

:::

##### Sending Tokens Using a QR Code

Using QR code reduces the number of mistakes and simplifies the process of entering addresses and tokens. Token information and address are encoded within the QR code, and the application decodes it.

1. Tap on the Scan icon on the top right corner and allow access to the camera.

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-qr-open.jpg" width="400"></center>

2. Scan the QR code and then enter the amount of tokens that you'd like to send.

<!-- Probably not needed <center><img src=".gitbook/assets/Screenshot_20210915-101737_Soralution.jpg" width="400"></center> -->
<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-qr-enter-amount.jpg" width="400"></center>

#### Receiving Tokens Using a QR Code

If you'd like to get tokens using a QR code:

1. Tap the QR icon on the top right corner of the wallet screen:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-qr-receive.jpg" width="400"></center>

2. Select the asset:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-qr-receive-select-asset.jpg" width="400"></center>

3. Share the generated QR using the share icon or by copying the image:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-qr-share-qr.jpg" width="400"></center>

Commit message:

Added meta tags to the rest of the pages

src/transfer.md, after:

---
title: Sora Transfer | Sora Docs
head:
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: Learn how to transfer assets on the Sora Network. Discover the various methods and tools available for transferring digital assets securely and efficiently within the Sora ecosystem. Explore the transfer process, including sending and receiving assets, transaction fees, and best practices for ensuring smooth and reliable asset transfers on the Sora Network.
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: Sora Transfer, Sora Network, asset transfer, digital assets, secure transfer, transaction fees, sending assets, receiving assets, asset transfer process, Sora ecosystem
---

# Transfer

Transfers are used to send tokens from one account to another. You can make transfers using Polkadot.js apps, Polkaswap, and the SORA mobile application.

The transfer logic is implemented in the `assets` pallet. SORA supports multiple assets and every asset can be transferred.

Transferring is a transaction so the network fee must be paid. The fee is calculated in XOR so even if you transfer VAL, PSWAP, or any other token you should have some XOR to cover the fee. The transfer fee in SORA is **0.07 XOR**.

## Practice

::: tip
We recommend using the SORA testnet for practice exercises. Here are the Testnet links:

1. [Polkaswap test application](https://test.polkaswap.io/)
2. [Polkadot js SORA testnet application](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Fws.stage.sora2.soramitsu.co.jp#/explorer)
3. [Android testnet application](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=jp.co.soramitsu.sora.communitytesting&hl=en&gl=US)
4. [iOS testnet application](https://testflight.apple.com/join/670hF438)
   :::

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/RdJ6yFFl06k" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Getting Test Tokens

You can practice with transfers using test tokens in the SORA testnet.

1. Open the [faucet](https://testfaucet.polkaswap.io/)

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-open-faucet.png" width="400"></center>

2. Enter your SORA address, select the token, and the number of tokens you need.

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-request-testnet-tokens.png" width="400"></center>

3. Click **Send testnet VAL (XOR, PSWAP).**

::: info
Keep in mind that every transaction in SORA requires a fee in XOR. Transferring is a transaction so don't forget to request a few XORs from the faucet.
:::

### Send Tokens

#### Via Polkaswap

The Polkaswap web application has a wallet that you can use for sending tokens.

1. Open the **Account** section and click on send icon (an arrow near the asset)

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-click-send.png" width="400"></center>

2. Enter the recipient address and amount of tokens that you'd like to send

   <center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-enter-address.png" width="400"></center>

   If you enter an address that does not start with `cn`, then you'll see a notification about address conversion. <!-- (as mentioned in the Account prefix section of [Accounts in SORA](/accounts-in-sora.md#converting-the-address-format)). -->

   <center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-notification.png" width="400"></center>

3. Click Send and confirm the transaction.

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-confirm-transaction.png" width="400"></center>

4. After the transaction confirmation from the Polkadot.js extension appears, enter your password and confirm the transaction:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-confirmation-enter-password.png" width="400"></center>

::: tip

You can then find your transaction on the Activity tab:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-view-activity.png" width="400"></center>

:::

#### Via Mobile Application

The SORA mobile application provides a good UX for sending and receiving tokens.

1. Open the wallet screen and tap the send icon in the top right corner.

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-open-wallet.jpg" width="400"></center>

2. Select the token to sent:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-select-token.jpg" width="400"></center>

3. Enter the recipient's address:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-enter-recipient.jpg" width="400"></center>

4. Enter the amount of tokens to send:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-enter-amount-zero.jpg" width="400"> <img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-enter-amount-entered.jpg" width="400"></center>

5. Confirm the transaction:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-confirm.jpg" width="400"></center>

You'll be redirected to the Wallet screen:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-redirect-to-wallet.jpg" width="400"></center>

::: tip

Tap on the transaction in history to view the details:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-view-history.jpg" width="400"></center>

:::

##### Sending Tokens Using a QR Code

Using QR code reduces the number of mistakes and simplifies the process of entering addresses and tokens. Token information and address are encoded within the QR code, and the application decodes it.

1. Tap on the Scan icon on the top right corner and allow access to the camera.

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-qr-open.jpg" width="400"></center>

2. Scan the QR code and then enter the amount of tokens that you'd like to send.

<!-- Probably not needed <center><img src=".gitbook/assets/Screenshot_20210915-101737_Soralution.jpg" width="400"></center> -->
<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-qr-enter-amount.jpg" width="400"></center>

#### Receiving Tokens Using a QR Code

If you'd like to get tokens using a QR code:

1. Tap the QR icon on the top right corner of the wallet screen:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-qr-receive.jpg" width="400"></center>

2. Select the asset:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-qr-receive-select-asset.jpg" width="400"></center>

3. Share the generated QR using the share icon or by copying the image:

<center><img src=".gitbook/assets/transfer-mobile-qr-share-qr.jpg" width="400"></center>
