src/xor.md, before:

# XOR (天)

XOR is the network utility token used for transaction fees (gas). 50% of the fee is burnt, while the other 50% is used for validators. XOR has elastic supply managed by a [token bonding curve](https://medium.com/sora-xor/sora-the-new-economic-order-3ec3f0327e5a).

Holders of a certain amount of XOR become citizens and members of the [SORA Parliament](https://medium.com/sora-xor/the-sora-parliament-af8184dae384).

XOR is used:

- to add liquidity to pairs on [Polkaswap](https://polkaswap.io/)
- to become a validator or to [nominate validators](https://wiki.sora.org/guides/how-to-nominate-validators-stake-your-xor) on the SORA network through staking

More about [SORA tokenomics](https://medium.com/sora-xor/sora-the-new-economic-order-3ec3f0327e5a).

## XOR Token Supply

The XOR supply is elastically managed by a [token bonding curve](https://wiki.sora.org/token-bonding-curve) smart contract with buy and sell price functions. This means that as the token supply increases, the price also increases, and vice versa. The price is regulated by the bonding curve, so no extreme fluctuations in the price will be exhibited, but rather a smooth growth or decline.

When the SORA v2 network launched in April 2021, the XOR supply was 350,000 XOR.

## XOR Token Distribution

Fair distribution: when the SORA v2 network launched, 350,000 XOR were put on Uniswap, and then people bought more XOR over time.

XOR distribution can be tracked on [Etherscan](https://etherscan.io/token/0x40FD72257597aA14C7231A7B1aaa29Fce868F677#balances) and on [Sorascan](https://sorascan.com/sora-mainnet/account).

## XOR Top Holders

When looking at the top holders on [Subscan](https://sora.subscan.io/account), several of those addresses are technical accounts supporting the whole network.

The table below lists the technical accounts holding XOR and additional addresses corresponding to Polkaswap reward accounts. This list will be receiving ongoing updates to ensure accuracy.

| Address                                                                                                                                 | Role                                                                                                                               |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7m6B1ToDe2qJbdz7aQw8F3W1CK ](https://sora.subscan.io/account/cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7m6B1ToDe2qJbdz7aQw8F3W1CK) | **Smart contract of the Ethereum bridge**                                                                                          |
| [cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7o32AxA6oQU4AzkUMnmMwM6Tk7](https://sora.subscan.io/account/cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7o32AxA6oQU4AzkUMnmMwM6Tk7)  | **XOR-PSWAP pool**                                                                                                                 |
| [cnU7pnMDygCSPrAX2CKnorQBfMZ2cujWqFpPKvGJoX7bRT9cx](https://sora.subscan.io/account/cnU7pnMDygCSPrAX2CKnorQBfMZ2cujWqFpPKvGJoX7bRT9cx)  | [**JP Games loan**](https://medium.com/sora-xor/sora-xor-could-be-the-official-native-token-of-the-pegasus-world-kit-4ac45fd7cc32) |
| [cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7f4sMKaWQF583on92JL48B9kjq ](https://sora.subscan.io/account/cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7f4sMKaWQF583on92JL48B9kjq) | **XOR-VAL pool**                                                                                                                   |
| [cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7fuxWZxsAP6HA1UauiMxyJ4Wmp ](https://sora.subscan.io/account/cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7fuxWZxsAP6HA1UauiMxyJ4Wmp) | **XOR-DAI pool**                                                                                                                   |
| [cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7jT6zmAjZB72t6j7HHmgtiMKgB ](https://sora.subscan.io/account/cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7jT6zmAjZB72t6j7HHmgtiMKgB) | **XOR-ETH pool**                                                                                                                   |
| cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7easBTbiFMQUUwfLf9LX66ND8u                                                                                       | **TBC Rewards**                                                                                                                    |
| cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7fJT4Awahg1d8aoYoGGv2ATz7m                                                                                       | **Market Maker Rewards**                                                                                                           |
| cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7kr72qNfcUDvqPxUdw4h2A5axX                                                                                       | **Farming Rewards**                                                                                                                |
| cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7iW5aLF24hi1k1H4t3L49TzhPe                                                                                       | **Pre-Launch PSWAP and VAL Reserve Account**                                                                                       |
| cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7ftiv4yCCpUQy1J2y7Y54Taiaw                                                                                       | **PSWAP Distribution for Liquidity Providers**                                                                                     |

Commit message:

Added meta tags to the rest of the pages

src/xor.md, after:

---
title: Sora XOR Token | Sora Docs
head:
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: Learn about XOR, the native token of the Sora Network. Discover the features, use cases, and benefits of XOR within the Sora ecosystem. Explore its role in governance, staking, liquidity providing, and other activities, and understand how XOR powers the decentralized economy and incentivizes active participation in the Sora Network.
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: Sora XOR token, native token, Sora Network, governance, staking, liquidity providing, decentralized economy, Sora ecosystem
---

# XOR (天)

XOR is the network utility token used for transaction fees (gas). 50% of the fee is burnt, while the other 50% is used for validators. XOR has elastic supply managed by a [token bonding curve](https://medium.com/sora-xor/sora-the-new-economic-order-3ec3f0327e5a).

Holders of a certain amount of XOR become citizens and members of the [SORA Parliament](https://medium.com/sora-xor/the-sora-parliament-af8184dae384).

XOR is used:

- to add liquidity to pairs on [Polkaswap](https://polkaswap.io/)
- to become a validator or to [nominate validators](https://wiki.sora.org/guides/how-to-nominate-validators-stake-your-xor) on the SORA network through staking

More about [SORA tokenomics](https://medium.com/sora-xor/sora-the-new-economic-order-3ec3f0327e5a).

## XOR Token Supply

The XOR supply is elastically managed by a [token bonding curve](https://wiki.sora.org/token-bonding-curve) smart contract with buy and sell price functions. This means that as the token supply increases, the price also increases, and vice versa. The price is regulated by the bonding curve, so no extreme fluctuations in the price will be exhibited, but rather a smooth growth or decline.

When the SORA v2 network launched in April 2021, the XOR supply was 350,000 XOR.

## XOR Token Distribution

Fair distribution: when the SORA v2 network launched, 350,000 XOR were put on Uniswap, and then people bought more XOR over time.

XOR distribution can be tracked on [Etherscan](https://etherscan.io/token/0x40FD72257597aA14C7231A7B1aaa29Fce868F677#balances) and on [Sorascan](https://sorascan.com/sora-mainnet/account).

## XOR Top Holders

When looking at the top holders on [Subscan](https://sora.subscan.io/account), several of those addresses are technical accounts supporting the whole network.

The table below lists the technical accounts holding XOR and additional addresses corresponding to Polkaswap reward accounts. This list will be receiving ongoing updates to ensure accuracy.

| Address                                                                                                                                 | Role                                                                                                                               |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7m6B1ToDe2qJbdz7aQw8F3W1CK ](https://sora.subscan.io/account/cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7m6B1ToDe2qJbdz7aQw8F3W1CK) | **Smart contract of the Ethereum bridge**                                                                                          |
| [cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7o32AxA6oQU4AzkUMnmMwM6Tk7](https://sora.subscan.io/account/cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7o32AxA6oQU4AzkUMnmMwM6Tk7)  | **XOR-PSWAP pool**                                                                                                                 |
| [cnU7pnMDygCSPrAX2CKnorQBfMZ2cujWqFpPKvGJoX7bRT9cx](https://sora.subscan.io/account/cnU7pnMDygCSPrAX2CKnorQBfMZ2cujWqFpPKvGJoX7bRT9cx)  | [**JP Games loan**](https://medium.com/sora-xor/sora-xor-could-be-the-official-native-token-of-the-pegasus-world-kit-4ac45fd7cc32) |
| [cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7f4sMKaWQF583on92JL48B9kjq ](https://sora.subscan.io/account/cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7f4sMKaWQF583on92JL48B9kjq) | **XOR-VAL pool**                                                                                                                   |
| [cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7fuxWZxsAP6HA1UauiMxyJ4Wmp ](https://sora.subscan.io/account/cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7fuxWZxsAP6HA1UauiMxyJ4Wmp) | **XOR-DAI pool**                                                                                                                   |
| [cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7jT6zmAjZB72t6j7HHmgtiMKgB ](https://sora.subscan.io/account/cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7jT6zmAjZB72t6j7HHmgtiMKgB) | **XOR-ETH pool**                                                                                                                   |
| cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7easBTbiFMQUUwfLf9LX66ND8u                                                                                       | **TBC Rewards**                                                                                                                    |
| cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7fJT4Awahg1d8aoYoGGv2ATz7m                                                                                       | **Market Maker Rewards**                                                                                                           |
| cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7kr72qNfcUDvqPxUdw4h2A5axX                                                                                       | **Farming Rewards**                                                                                                                |
| cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7iW5aLF24hi1k1H4t3L49TzhPe                                                                                       | **Pre-Launch PSWAP and VAL Reserve Account**                                                                                       |
| cnTQ1kbv7PBNNQrEb1tZpmK7ftiv4yCCpUQy1J2y7Y54Taiaw                                                                                       | **PSWAP Distribution for Liquidity Providers**                                                                                     |
